Data Cleanup & Exploration

•	Describe the exploration and cleanup process
•	Discuss insights you had while exploring the data that you didn't anticipate
•	Discuss any problems that arose after exploring the data, and how you resolved them
•	Present and discuss interesting figures developed during exploration, ideally with the help of Jupyter Notebook

Population: CENSUS csv

-    Our population data were retrieved from the 2019 census dataset csv. 
-    Rural City are random cities with a population of less than 50,000. 
-    While, Urban City are random cities with a population more than 50,000. 
-    Any city names(“NAME”) with a state name(“STNAME) result (i.e. Alabama) from both city results, city name was dropped from      the column with a loc function.
-    Only incorporated locations with population over 1,000 people.
-    We eliminated all summed city/town data.
-    Removed counties.
-    100  Rural and Urban City samples were then drawn from these dataframes. 

Restaurants: Yelp API data 

-    Our results for vegan restaurants were drawn from the Yelp API businesses search. 
-    Dictionaries collected from the API were: cities searched, city, state, latitude, longitude, restaurant name, category (i.e. pizza,           vegan, seafood, donuts), and transactions (i.e. pick-up or delivery). 

Problem #1
-  API response: first Yelp API pull, our results were limited to 20 – 40 results

Resolution:  API response: Parameters for the request were edited. 

	‘location’ : f “{city}, {state}”  -- ADDED AS A STRING
	‘radius’ : 8047  -- INCREASED FROM 4000 (is this correct?)
	‘limit’ : 50  -- ADDED LIMIT PARAMETER AS SUGGESTED FROM API DOCUMENTATION
	‘offset’ : offset[i] – ADDED PARAMETER AND SET ARANGE FUNCTION

Problem #2
-  Limited to 5000 API calls per day

Resolution: Divided pull requests between available API keys, and saved copies of csv files for accessibility and further data retrieval and clean-up.

Problem #3
-  Not all sub-categories were pulled for businesses

Resolution: Created a separate sub-category loop to collect all values and extracted results into different category columns. 

Problem #4 
-  Duplicated results for our final urban and clean population dataframes. 

Resolution: Census csv was further cleaned to eliminate duplicated population results from city results. Selective manipulation of pertinent population data was also applied.  

DATA INSIGHTS:

-    Population data from census.gov provided us a reliable source of current total population in U.S. cities. 
-    Summary distribution of vegan restaurants across the U.S. is significant in coastal states; however, still at a low    percentage in        comparison to other restaurant options. 
-    Vegan restaurants are only in existence at 0.49% within our gathered average number of urban restaurants of 558. Per           capita urban vegan restaurants are at .000035. 
-    While, vegan restaurants are at 0.34% within the average number of rural restaurants of 155. Per capita rural vegan               restaurants are at .000242. 
-    For our urban city summary, there is a weak correlation between population and vegan options. 
-    For our rural city summary, there is no correlation between population and vegan options. 

INTERESTING FIGURES:

-    Shown in vegan restaurant heatmap distribution
-    Top 5 urban vegan cities
-    Top 5 rural vegan cities


